#1.1 Think About Time Reflection

Prior to phase 0, I started reading some of books recommended in the pre-phase 0 material and while researching the topics in this assignment, I found myself reflecting back on what I learned while reading A Mind for Numbers by Barbara Oakley. That book focused on two different modes of thinking (Focused and Diffuse) and how both modes are critical to learning. The author argues that learning requires you to switch between both modes to fully understand an idea. It's important to start with a highly attentive state and focus your attention on a specific problem. After focusing for a period of time it's important to spend time away from the problem to allow the diffuse mode to take over. This is where your subconscious mind can draw conclusions about the bigger picture. A description from the book that made sense to me was that focused learning is like looking at a single puzzle piece and diffuse learning allows you to see how that piece fits into the entire puzzle. The book also talks about procrastination and how by putting off focused learning we rob ourselves of the opportunity for diffuse learning. It described activities we are avoiding as actually painful to our brains and that once we start an activity, those pain sensations go away. I've definitely experienced this but I’ve never had words to describe it.

With this in mind I think implementing techniques such as the pomodoro technique and time boxing will help me start some tasks that my 'Lizard Brain' is avoiding. Time boxing, a way to set aside a specific amount of time for an activity, also seems like a good way to 'Start Small'. I've been using the pomodoro technique in my pre-phase 0 studying and I have found it incredibly helpful to get me started on a task and avoid procrastination. My plan for time management during phase 0 is to continue using pomodoro's to get started and use time boxing to not get stuck on one task for too long a period of time.
